I chose to describe the following IDE’s – Visual Studio, IDEA, Eclipse, NetBeans and Xcode.

Visual Studio - Microsoft Visual Studio is an IDE from Microsoft. It is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services. Visual Studio supports different programming languages and allows the code editor and debugger to support (to varying degrees) nearly any programming language, provided a language-specific service exists. Built-in languages include C, C++ and C++/CLI , VB.NET , C# , and F# (as of Visual Studio 2010). Support for other languages such as M, Python, and Ruby among others is available via language services installed separately. It also supports XML/XSLT, HTML/XHTML, JavaScript and CSS.

IDEA - IntelliJ IDEA is a Java IDE that supports Java 8 and Java EE 7, offers tools for Android development, support for enterprise technologies and more. It’s a comprehensive platform with deep functionality to streamline development efforts across multiple platforms and channels. IntelliJ IDEA supports  HTML, JavaScript, CS, Sass, LESS, TypeScript, CoffeeScript, Node.js. Extensive support for PHP, Ruby on Rails and Python/Django.

Eclipse - Eclipse is an IDE, which contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. Written mostly in Java, Eclipse can be used to develop applications. By means of various plug-ins, Eclipse may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages: Ada, ABAP, C, C++, COBOL, Fortran, Haskell, JavaScript, Lasso, Natural, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, R, Ruby (including Ruby on Rails framework), Scala, Clojure, Groovy, Scheme, and Erlang.

NetBeans - NetBeans is a popular IDE for C and C++ projects with an intuitive, drag-and-drop interface with project templates, binary and static libraries, and many useful functions to make your life simpler. It also supports Fortan and Assembler files, with GNU Debugger Integration and code assistance, NetBeans is a functional IDE for editing existing projects, building on templates or building from scratch on most leading platforms. There are also multiple NetBeans Enterprise IDE Download Bundles with options that support several additional technologies, including Java, PHP, HTML5 and more.

Xcode - Xcode IDE is a component of Xcode 5, a complete set of tools for building and deploying apps in the Apple environment. It’s integrated with the Cocoa and Cocoa Touch frameworks for streamlined development of apps for the Mac, iPhone and iPad. It’s designed for a seamless workflow to move from start to finish in a single interface, with built-in communication with the Apple Developer website for one-click enablement of services like Game Center or Passbook, allowing you to create more robust, highly-functional apps in a fraction of the time. This IDE supports AppleScript, C, C++, Objective-C, Java.

